# PaceGateway API Reference

___

## Overview

Thank you for your interest in PaceGateway REST APIs.

### Introduction

Use this PaceGateway [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) API Reference to learn about the API endpoints and operations available for accessing, creating, or modifying resources. The PaceGateway REST API provides an interface for users to interact with PaceGateway by sending and receiving data as [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) (JavaScript Object Notation) objects.

### Getting started

Review the "Getting started" topics to get up and running with your PaceGateway account.

#### Registration, account activation

Registration instructions.

#### User assigned to merchant

User must be assigned to a merchant that has been properly boarded to a [TSYS](https://www.tsys.com/) **OR** [Shazam](https://www.shazam.net/) **OR** [Fiserve](https://www.fiserv.com/en.html) host.

#### Terms of Use

Developer Terms of Use (link to separate content)

### Authentication

PaceGateway APIs use [OAuth 2.0 protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749) for authentication and authorization. Before your application can access private data using a PaceGateway API, it must obtain a [Bearer Token](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6750) that allows access to that API. The bearer token is an encrypted string, generated by the PaceGateway server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:

`Authorization: Bearer <token>`

! Warning—All REST API requests must be made over HTTPS. Connections made using HTTP will be refused.

! Warning—The Username and Password used to call oAuth for bearer token **MUST** have [Two-Factor Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-factor_authentication) (2FA) inactivated in the users profile. If 2FA is active, the API will not return a bearer token.

### Key concepts

Explore key concepts associated with RESTful APIs.

#### Routes & Endpoints

#### Requests

#### Responses

#### Schema

#### Controller classes

### Using the REST API

The PaceGateway API is designed around RESTful principles.

#### Pagination

Note any "list" API methods for bulk fetches, e.g. Auto-pagination?

#### Versioning

Information on API updates.

#### Metadata

Information on use of metadata or a `description` parameter, e.g.

#### Errors

* Status 200 OK: Successful request
* Status 401 Unauthorized: Authentication is possible but failed
* Status 404 Not Found: Page not found

(May be better to include error messages with all response types in Endpoint Reference instead of in Overview section--depends on range of possible response types)

### Use cases

* Hotel manager enters credit card information into system.
* Branch director needs to issue a refund to a customer.
* Sysadmin needs to add a user.

### Frequently Asked Questions

* My access token expired. How do I get a new one?
* How do I add a new user to the system?
* How can I issue a refund to a customer?

### Workflow

E.g., diagram showing request and responses calls between Cardholder,  Merchant, PaceGateway

### System architecture diagram

If needed. ...

### Resource description

Detailed description of resource with attributes and child attributes

(Maybe better to have resources description in Endpoint Reference below, grouped with it's associated calls.)

___

## Endpoint Reference

(Much of format of this Endpoint Reference section will be auto-generated by API documentation tool—E.g., Parameters, Headers, request and response bodies)

### Resource

Detailed resource description—if not included in Overview section before the Endpoint Reference

#### Action (E.g., Accept a payment)

Description of action

**Method URL** (E.g., `PUT api.pacegateway.com/v2/take`)

##### Parameters (Path and Query)

| Parameter | Description | Data Type | Required? | Notes |
| -----------|-------------|-----------|-----------|-------|
| userID     | User identification number | integer | Required |

(Do we need both--or either--path and query parameters?)

##### Headers

| Header Name | Value | Required? |
| -----------|--------|-----------|
| Content-Type | application/json | Required |

##### Request example

##### Response example

___

## Glossary

### API

Application Programming Interface. Establishes standards for how different systems can interact with each other programmatically. Common types of APIs include REST APIs (web APIs) and native-library APIs.

### CRUD

Create, Read, Update, Delete. In computer programming, these are the four basic operations of persistent storage. These four programming operations are often compared to POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE methods with REST API operations.

### cURL

A command line utility used to interact with REST API endpoints. Used in the Endpoint Reference for request code samples. curl is typically the default format used to display requests in API documentation. Also spelled cURL.

### Endpoints and methods

The endpoints indicate how you access the resource, while the method indicates the allowed interactions (such as GET, POST, or DELETE) with the resource.

A resource usually has a variety of related endpoints, each with different paths and methods and returning different information about the same resource. The endpoint shows the end path of a resource URL only, not the base path common to all endpoints.

### Header parameters

Parameters included in the request header, usually related to authorization.

### JSON

JavaScript Object Notation. A lightweight syntax containing objects and arrays and used to return information from a REST API.

### Method

The allowed operation with a resource in terms of GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, and so on. These operations determine whether you’re reading information, creating new information, updating existing information, or deleting information.

### Parameters

Parameters are options you can pass with the endpoint (such as specifying the response format or the amount returned) to influence the response. There are several types of parameters: header parameters, path parameters, and query string parameters.

### Request

The way information is returned from an API. In a request, the client provides a resource URL with the proper authorization to an API server. The API returns a response with the information requested.

### Request body

A block of information, usually JSON, included in the request body, used with POST and PUT methods.

### Resources

Resources refer to any information returned by an API. Most APIs have various categories of information, or various resources, that can be returned. Resources usually have various endpoints to access the resource and multiple methods for each endpoint.

### Response

The information returned by an API after a request is made. Responses to PaceGateway APIs are in JSON format.

### Response example and schema

The response example shows a sample response from the request example; the response schema defines all possible elements in the response.

The description of the response is known as the response schema. The response schema documents the response in a more comprehensive, general way, listing each property that could possibly be returned, what each property contains, the data format of the values, the structure, and other details.

### REST API

REST stands for Representational State Transfer. Uses web protocols (HTTP) to make requests and provide responses in a language agnostic way, meaning users can make API calls using different programming languages.  

### YAML

Recursive acronym for “YAML Ain’t No Markup Language.” A human-readable, space-sensitive syntax used in the OpenAPI specification document.

___

## Changelog

### v0.0.1